Nancy.zhu/update mobile app (#29264)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/mobile/push_notification.md

---
title: Set Up Push Notifications on Mobile App
further_reading:
- link: "https://docs.datadoghq.com/service_management/on-call/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "On-Call Documentation"
- link: "https://docs.datadoghq.com/service_management/incident_management/notification/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Incident Notification Rules Documentation"
- link: "https://docs.datadoghq.com/getting_started/workflow_automation/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Workflow Automation Documentation"
---

Receive mobile push notifications for [on-call alerts](#circumvent-mute-and-Do-Not-Disturb-mode-for-On-Call), [incidents](#incident-notifications), and [workflow automation updates](#workflow-automation-notifications), so you can stay informed in real time from the Datadog mobile app.

## Set up push notifications
<div class="alert alert-info">
When you log into the Datadog mobile app for the first time, an onboarding flow takes care of notification settings and permissions.
</div>

> However, by default, the mobile app is not allowed to send you notifications. To receive push notifications: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the mobile app is not allowed to send you notifications. To receive push notifications: 
```
Or remove the alert styling on the sentence before this one

Make sure you grant the mobile app the necessary permissions.
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "Android" %}}
1. In the Datadog mobile app, navigate to **Settings** > **Notifications**.

   {{< img src="service_management/mobile/android_settings_may_2025.png" alt="Find the notification settings in the Android version of Datadog's mobile app." style="width:35%;" >}}

2. Enable the **Allow notifications** toggle. Datadog highly recommends you also enable **Sound and vibration** and **Show content on Lock screen**.

   {{< img src="service_management/mobile/android_notification_may_2025.png" alt="Configure the system notification settings of your Android device." style="width:100%;" >}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Custom sounds
On both iOS and Android, you have the option to override the default system notification sounds. The Datadog app comes preloaded with a selection of custom sounds.  

## Circumvent mute and Do Not Disturb mode for On-Call
You can override your device's system volume and Do Not Disturb mode for both push notifications (from the Datadog mobile app) and telephony notifications (such as voice call and SMS).

> For more information, here is a full guide on [how to set up your mobile device for On-Call][]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see the [guide on setting up your mobile device for On-Call][].
```
This link seems to be missing, did you mean to link to `/service_management/on-call/guides/configure-mobile-device-for-on-call`?

{{% tab "iOS" %}}

{{< img src="service_management/mobile/ios_critical_may_2025.png" alt="Override your iOS device's system volume and do-not-disturb mode." style="width:100%;" >}}

1. In the Datadog mobile app, navigate to **Settings** > **On-Call**.

2. Enable the **Critical Alerts** toggle. Critical alerts ignore the mute switch and Do Not Disturb. If you enable critical alerts, the system plays a critical alert’s sound regardless of the device’s mute or Do Not Disturb settings.

3. Within the iOS system settings, make sure you enable the **Critical Alerts** toggle. Make sure you grant the mobile app the necessary permissions.

4. Test the setup of your critical push notification by tapping **Test push notifications**.

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Android" %}}

{{< img src="service_management/mobile/android_critical_may_2025.png" alt="Override your Android device's system volume and Do Not Disturb mode." style="width:100%;" >}}

1. In the Datadog mobile app, navigate to **Settings** > **On-Call**.

{{< img src="service_management/mobile/android_allow_notification_may_2025.png" alt="Override your Android device's system volume and Do Not Disturb mode." style="width:100%;" >}}

> 2. If notification permissiongs are missing, tap **Bypass Do Not Disturb** and enable **Allow notifications** in System Settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. If notification permissions are missing, tap **Bypass Do Not Disturb** and enable **Allow notifications** in System Settings.
```

{{< img src="service_management/mobile/android_override_system_may_2025.png" alt="Override your Android device's system volume and Do Not Disturb mode." style="width:100%;" >}}

> 3. Then tap **Bypass Do Not Disturb** and enable **Override Do Not Disturb** in System Settings for High urgency On-Call.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Then tap **Bypass Do Not Disturb** and enable **Override Do Not Disturb** in System Settings for High urgency On-Call.
```
If you modified "High urgency On-Call" elsewhere, update it here as well

{{< img src="service_management/mobile/android_override_system_volume_may_2025.png" alt="Override your Android device's system volume and Do Not Disturb mode." style="width:100%;" >}}

5. In order to override system volume, tap the **Override system volume** and allow **Mode access** in System Settings to toggle on **Override system volume**.

6. Test the setup of your critical push notification by tapping **Test push notifications**.

<div class="alert alert-danger">
On Android, the Datadog mobile app cannot bypass system volume or Do Not Disturb settings when used within a Work Profile. As a workaround, install the Datadog mobile app on your personal profile.
</div>

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}
### Custom sounds for critical push
For high-urgency notifications, Datadog strongly recommends customizing your system sounds and volume settings. This ensures that alerts are not only more distinct and recognizable, but also more effective in capturing attention.

## Incident notifications
Receive status updates on your active incidents by setting up [Notification Rules for incidents on the Web][2]. 

1. In Incidents, navigate to **Settings** > [**Notification Rules**][1].

> 2. Click **+ New Rule** button on the top right.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click the **+ New Rule** button on the top right.
```
